So in this video
we're going to be Introducing AI Blackboard Data, and we're going to use that data
to specify two patrol points like this, that the AI Controller will be
moving between. You see him running between the world origin, at my cursor, and some other point
in the map. And while he's doing all that, the Behavior Tree now
will be doing something slightly more interesting, using a sequence node and moving between these
two different points, that are specified in two pieces of Blackboard data.
And of course, there's some blueprint that goes along with that. So I will see you in there!
So now that we're had a brief look at Behavior Trees, which are like the methods
of your code, they are the behavior or the
execution flow of how the artificial intelligence is going to work.
Let's take a little bit more of a look at the blackboards! So you may have a Self
Actor key that's added itself here, probably just because the Behavior Tree's
Move To wants something to move to. So I'm going to add a new
key and make it a VectorKey, because that's the sensible thing
to use if we're wanting to specify a position in the world. I'm going to call it
WorldOrigin. And this is just
the 0,0,0 point. So that's
how I make a vector! Now, this is not obviously setting the value, this is
just a description, this is just a hover over description
for it. So now we need to talk about how we're going to set the value. So back in the
Behavior Tree, instead of moving to this SelfActor thing, we're going to move to this new WorldOrigin
key. I'm actually going to delete the SelfActor key, so we're just
left with a vector key, a yellow vector key, called WorldOrigin
and Move To uses that. Now, how do we set the value?
Well you actually set the value inside the blueprint, so let's go to the
NPC_AI_BP blueprint here, and I'm going to set this value before we run the
Behavior Tree. It kind of makes sense to do that, because we want the data
available before we try and run the behavior. So what I'm going to is I'm going to say Use
Blackboard, which is a new type of blueprint node,
and I'm going to do that straight after BeginPlay, I'm going to specify the Blackboard as
the patrol data. OK that's cool! Now, I'm going to give myself
some more room and just show you how to do this, and then, there's going to be a nice exercise where you get to rehearse this yourself.
So we're going to use the patrol data Blackboard. Now we've got a reference
to the Blackboard component here, and with that we can Set Value
as Vector. This is how we set these
Blackboard values. So I'm going to do that and then I'll wire up the execution.
So how do we set the value? Well it's string referenced, or more specifically
it's name reference, which is an f name, which is something called a hash
of a string, but to all intents and purposes it's referenced by string. The way
we're going to use it is go and grab the actual string name of
this WorldOrigin. I don't like referencing things by string like this but it's how it's done.
So the good practice is to copy and paste the word WorldOrigin,
and then, in the blueprint we make, by dragging backwards off the key name,
we make a new name make literal name and just paste it right
in there. So the game begins, we tell it what Blackboard
to use, we set a value as a vector. Well which value? Which key? Which
of the Blackboard keys? Well there's only one right now and it's called WorldOrigin. So you set it by
name like this and we'll leave the value as 0,0,0. So it's in
here that we actually set the Blackboard key, effectively these two nodes
do it. You could put a comment around those two, "Set Blackboard
Key". The only thing is, it's kind of confusing unless we drag things out
What's going on? So why not space it out a little bit? So you
use a Blackboard, you set the Blackboard key, and then, you run the Behavior Tree. Cool!
Alright, let's see that working now! Play the game!
What does he do?, He kind of hovers or slides himself to 0,0,0. So
why is he sliding? Let's deal with that first. Well if you click on the
instance here in the world, the ThirdPersonCharacter, it has a section called Animation.
And previously, to get the animation working, we forced him to continually use a
particular animation asset, which was the ThirdPersonIdle. Now we're going to
revert back to doing it the other way, which is the Use the Animation Blueprint that
he has got with him. We'll delve into the details of animation blueprints later, but let's just
go back to using the default Third Person Animation Blueprint, like that. And
then, what will happen is when we play, he will actually choose his animation state, let
me show you that again, based on what he's doing. He runs to the origin, 0,0,0.
If we depossess and click on him we can confirm he is
close to the origin. He's not actually at the origin exactly, and the reason for that
is that when we asked him to do a move to in
here, you'll see that it's got an acceptable radius here of 5,
so it's a question of what you set as this Acceptable Radius. If we set that
down to say well even 0, then you run again
and then we depossess and find out where he ends up, you'll find
he may be a bit closer. But he's still a little bit away, particularly in Z. He's only
20 or 30 centimeters away in X and Y, but in Z his origin
has to be not at 0, 0, 0, because look his Z
origin is up and down, is at his hip, and that is never going to be
in the 0, 0, 0 position which is at the floor or just under the
floor. Alright, so I'm just going to reset that acceptable radius. I just
wanted to show you there, where that comes in to say 5.0 centimeters like that.
And this is a very different way, you may have noticed, of doing AI to how we did it
in Battle Tank. In Battle Tank, we still had all this going on behind the scenes but we circumvented
this whole Behavior Tree thing and that was because we wanted to force the
AI tanks to move in a very specific way using the controller, and it also
allowed me to hid all this detail from you until this section. But this is the standard way
of doing things. So we just move to the World Origin. The other thing to show you is, that if
you go over to the Behavior Tree here, while
it's running you can actually see what it's doing, especially if you do it quick enough. Click play, click over, and
you can see its Selector, and then, it's going to Move To and then it's stopped. It's going to
be a lot clearer, once we have a second node down here under the Selector, and that's what I
want you to do right now. I want you to patrol between two points, modify the Behavior
Tree, use the Sequence node instead of the Selector node,
because remember that the Selector node does one thing and then stops
running altogether, so he'd move to the origin and then stop. We want to use the Sequence node, so
that we repeatedly move to the origin and then to a second
location, that you're going to specify somewhere nearby inside the map,
a few meters away. And in total, you're going to need to use two Blackboard keys, just create
one new Blackboard key so that we have two in total, the World Origin and his
second patrol point. So go ahead, pause the video, and see if you can make that work
now.
OK welcome back! So this will be a great revision of how to do this and let's
take a look! So how are we going to do it? Well the first thing we're going to need really
is to start at the Blackboard. We're going to need a new vector for this
PatrolPoint, something like that. And it's called PatrolPoint
and "Somewhere
Else to go". That's just to get in the habit of ?putting comments in.
We'll talk about what Instance Synced means later, it's not relevant till we have multiple AI
controllers in the game. But we have this second key called PatrolPoint! Fantastic!
Now, what would be the easiest way of setting this second Blackboard key? Well it would really
be just to copy this entire section here, not just
a comment like I just did there, but you need to highlight the whole lot, Duplicate it by
right-clicking, if you can do it like that. You have got to
click in the right place, Duplicate, and then, you can move the whole thing over
here. And what this just allows us to do... It's a little bit messy, to be
honest, doing it this way. It may be easier to just select these two nodes,
move the Behavior Tree out here, and Duplicate just them.
You'll get the idea of duplicating nodes. Now, the reason I'm duplicating them and then
rewiring this execution flow is because what we're doing this second time is very similar.
But instead of going to WorldOrigin, we're going to be going to PatrolPoint.
Remember use Cut and Paste. And we're going to use a different value. Now the way I'm going to discover
my values is like this, I'm just going to click on this dude, I'm
going to use this particular selector point here. So you see that the X
and Y arrows have gone yellow, if I go there, and then, I can move him along
the floor to say here. Notice roughly what the value is, 700 by
400 would do it, and I'm just going to remember that value.
I'll put him back somewhere else, it doesn't matter where, and I'm going to say
700, 400. We don't have to worry that the Z is at his feet, he will
sort that out, the AI Controller will sort that out. So all we've done there is
set a second value, which means
that in the Blackboard here that both of those values end up as set.
Alright, now in the Behavior Tree, we're going to then need to change the Selector for a
Sequence node, as I said. Now, you can see the difference, because you put it in and you hover
over it, and it tells you the difference, and once the Sequence node is in, we then
Move To WorldOrigin. And then, we're going to do another Move To.
Move Directly Towards, by the way, ignores the navigation system, not a good idea at the moment,
and the Blackboard key, the piece of data we're going to move to here is the patrol point.
So let's firstly observe the behavior! Well there's a
compiler error, so let's have a look! What's the problem in here?
Ah, now the problem here is that I didn't wire up the Target! It needs to know
what it is setting the value on. Which Blackboard
am I setting the value on? So you need to pull that Blackboard Target through.
OK, so we end up with this. Now let's try it!
There he is, he runs to the 0, 0, 0 point, runs over there,
runs back, runs over there, runs back. Now, if I depossess
and go and have a look at the Patrol Behavior Tree, look what's happening.
He's moving to the Origin, to the PatrolPoint, to the Origin, to the PatrolPoint. So well done! He's
running back and forth, that's great! This is obviously not a sustainable way of
continuing to add waypoints or patrol points
to the system, so I'm going to show you shortly how to do this in a much more scalable and
sustainable way. I'm just going to comment this second bit. "Set 2nd key",
spread things out a little bit, and then, again I'm going to make
my commit inside Source Tree here, after having
Saved All and then, close Unreal. I'll go and make
my commit, but I'll do that after I finish recording. So I'll see you in the next video!